[Music]
if you see this plant do not touch it
what would we do without plant plants
they produce the oxygen we breathe
they're a healthy source of food for us
to eat and they're just downright
beautiful to look at but not all plants
grow to make this world a better place
some of them can kill so if you ever see
any of the plants from this video
whether it's during a road trip or a
hike or even in somebody's garden make
sure to stay as far away from them as
possible
your curiosity could cost you your
health or in the worst case scenario
your life whoo that serious before you
find out what murderous plants you
should steer clear of be sure to click
that subscribe button we have tons of
helpful and informative videos like this
one coming out daily on the bright side
of life so don't forget to ring the bell
to enable post notifications that way
you won't miss a thing
even killer plants alright here are the
likely suspects number 1 dieffenbachia
also known as dumb cane or leopard Lily
uh-huh dieffenbachia is a tropical plant
native to South and Central America but
if you think it's just some extremely
rare exotic plant that's hard to stumble
across you'd be wrong and that's because
the dumb cane is a common house plant
lots of people get this plant because
it's really easy to take care of it's
low maintenance yet rewards you for the
little work you put into it with large
beautiful leaves it's no secret that
dumb cane is a toxic plant and it's got
a bad rep for that reason but you
shouldn't be so quick to believe all the
crazy stories online of this thing
killing anyone that crosses it in most
cases dieffenbachia isn't deadly for
people however that doesn't mean you
shouldn't be cautious around it
in all parts of the plant there are tiny
needle shaped crystals of calcium
oxalate called RAF IDEs
their main purpose is to protect the
plant from herbivores you know plant
eaters but that's not all according to
biologists dumb cane contains other
defensive toxins
besides calcium oxalate so what danger
can this plant possibly pose to people
did we get enough peas in that last
sentence hmm let's imagine you decide to
chew on one of its leaves in this case
you'll experience profuse salivation and
a strong burning sensation in your mouth
next your lips tongue and throat will
swell up this swelling can result in
difficulties breathing swallowing and
talking when ingested dieffenbachia
leaves have been known to cause vomiting
excuse me as well as nausea diarrhea Oh
a hoarse voice and tongue blistering oh
that was bad well you should also avoid
touching the leaves you may get some of
its juice on your hands and this can
cause a skin irritation and if you
forget that you've just touched a toxic
plant and you rub your eyes Oh be
prepared for pain and burning in your
eyes but what's even worse the toxin can
damage your cornea the outer layer of
the eye whew the effects of
dieffenbachia poisoning are unpleasant
but thankfully they're usually not too
serious you may suffer from intense pain
and discomfort in your mouth for a few
days but after that it'll go away on its
own unfortunately dumb cane poisoning
has resulted in some deaths but such
cases have been extremely rare still
it's crucial to know what to do if
somebody like a child tasted a leaf or
two of this pretty plant
first of all wash out their mouths with
a cold damp cloth and give their hands a
thorough scrub if they've gotten the
plants juice in their eyes rinse them
out too in case of ingestion they also
need to drink some milk but if they
can't swallow
give them anything orally keep a close
eye on their condition and if it gets
worse
call emergency services immediately
number two castor bean plant people use
the castor bean plant for tons of
medicinal purposes for example castor
oil has been used for centuries as a
natural remedy for constipation thanks
to its laxative properties castor seeds
or beans without their hull have been
used to treat syphilis leprosy and
constipation as well it's even known to
have been used as a form of birth
control at the same time the castor bean
plant is much more dangerous than
dieffenbachia well not the plant itself
but the hull of its beans it contains a
deadly poison called ricin this
substance is one of the most toxic
things known to humankind
that's why seeds of the castor bean
plant are extremely dangerous to insects
animals and people if a person swallows
even one beam in its outer coating
they're already in danger
symptoms of ricin poisoning include
nausea diarrhea vomiting and abdominal
pain
these signs appear within a couple of
hours after ingesting the seed vomiting
and often bloody diarrhea don't stop for
several days leading to a drop in urine
production and blood pressure because of
all that an affected person is at risk
for dehydration shock liver and kidney
failure
pancreatic damage and ultimately death
[Music]
castor plant seeds are especially
dangerous for children this is not stuff
to play around with Captain Obvious if a
victim doesn't die within three to five
days they'll most likely recover plus if
an intact seed is swallowed and not
shoot chances are it'll just pass
through your digestive tract without
causing any harm but if the hull of the
seed is broken the ricin can escape and
poison the body by the way even
seemingly harmless and really useful
castor oil can become toxic if you keep
it in your mouth for too long or if you
consume it in large amounts number three
white snakeroot well snake root grows
mainly in the US and Canada it's quite a
tall plant reaching about 3 to 5 feet in
height the plant itself looks very
pretty and innocent in the summer and
fall is covered with little white
flowers that grow in beautiful clusters
it really is lovely and highly poisonous
both for people and animals white
snakeroot contains trimethyl a toxic
alcohol cattle that graze in places
where this plant is in abundance are at
risk of suffering from weakness
constipation muscular tremors and
eventually death but what's even worse
the trimethyl toxin can cause poisoning
and people through both direct
consumption and indirect contamination
for example if you drink the milk or eat
the meat of a poison cow you can get
milk sickness this medical condition is
characterized by weakness loss of
appetite nausea abdominal discomfort
vomiting and constipation if the
poisoning gets too severe a person may
have convulsions and fall into a coma
that eventually leads to death
in fact milk sickness was the cause of
thousands of fatalities among American
Midwest settlers in the early 19th
century
number four tobacco plant most people
nowadays are well aware of the dangers
of products made with tobacco like
cigarettes or snuff but not many know
that the plant itself also harms the
farmers who cultivate it the green
leaves of the tobacco plant contain
nicotine which can act as a poison and
it's not like you have to burn the plant
for it to poison you it can get absorbed
through the skin especially in wet
conditions like when it rains or a
worker is covered in sweat
as a result severe nicotine poisoning
also known as green tobacco sickness can
develop symptoms of nicotine poisoning
include dizziness nausea headaches
weakness and vomiting in most cases
workers on tobacco plantations don't
have any protection and the conditions
they work in are perfect for the
development of green tobacco sickness in
fact the average plantation worker comes
in contact with the same amount of
nicotine you'd find in 50 cigarettes
after harvesting season is over the
blood of one worker contains as much
nicotine as that of a chain smoker it
weakens their immune system immensely
paving the way for all kinds of diseases
like cancer so why are we still
harvesting this plan anyways beats me
as a bonus I'd like to introduce you to
Audrey to the meat-eating plan from
Little Shop of Horrors but I can't
because she's not real and besides the
other plants featured would be jealous
so have you ever seen any of the
poisonous plants described in this video
perhaps you know of some others let us
know down in the comments if this video
will help you be more careful in the
future give it a thumbs up and share it
with your friends stay healthy and safe
on the bright side of life
[Music]